Rules and Instructions to Play

Jeopardy!
A team will be chosen randomly to select a category and the value. For example, a team might say "Animal $200," which means that they have selected the animal category and the $200 clue value card.
The clue, which is in the form of an answer, will be read out.
After listening to the clue, the teams will get 10 seconds to discuss their answer.
The team that presses the buzzer or raises their hand first, will get a chance to answer.
The answer should be in the form of a question.
If that team answers correctly, the value of that clue is awarded to the team.
If the team gives an incorrect answer, those points will be subtracted from their score, and another team will get the chance to answer.
The round continues till all the 30 questions are answered.

Double Jeopardy!
The team with the lowest scores starts this round and selects a category.
The rest of the round is played like the first one.

Daily Doubles!
For the first two rounds, three clue cards are selected to be considered as Daily Doubles.
When a team selects the Daily Double card, that team will be the only one to answer.
That team has to wager points before answering to the clue.
If the team answers correctly, the amount that it had risked, adds up in their score. For an incorrect answer, the points get subtracted from their score.

Final Jeopardy!
Before playing the third and the last round, teams that have zero or minus points will be eliminated from the game.
The host will then reveal the category for the round.
The remaining teams get 10 seconds to decide how many points they will wager.
The number can be anything from $100 to any amount that they have already won.
The host will provide blank cards to the teams on which they will write the points they want to risk.
Then, the host will read out the clue and the teams will need to write the answers in a question format on their card.
The host will collect all the cards and read out the wager and the answers.
The teams with the correct answers will get those many points added to their score. However, teams with the wrong answers will get those many points subtracted from their score.
In the end, the team with the highest score wins the game. If there is a tie, the Jeopardy rule for a tie is to declare both the teams as winners.


Keeping these Jeopardy rules in mind, this game can be played at home, for an office party, or as a variation in a quiz competition at school. Happy quizzing!